It's time to finally start coding.
And in this exercise we're going to be exploring some data that we're going to grab from Kaggle.
It's time to do some coding so open up your Jupiter notebooks.
Now in my case I already have some files here but usually it'll just be whatever files you have on your
desktop.
It doesn't really matter because we're going to create a new file here and make sure that the notebook
is going to be in Python 3 so once you create that notebook title it whatever you want in our case we're
going to be exploring some FIFA Soccer datasets.
So let's just call it soccer now in order for us to learn about data science and machine learning.
We remember our steps right.
We have to import the data so we get the data from what we export last time which is Kaggle.
If you haven't registered already.
Make sure you do that.
Otherwise just sign in.
And once you're assigned and just go to datasets let's make this a little bit bigger and within the
datasets again we can pick whatever we want.
But I feel like checking out the FIFA 20 19 dataset Now I usually like looking at the scores here to
make sure that it's a good dataset.
In this case it looks like the FIFA 19 complete player dataset is looking pretty nice.
We have two megabytes of data.
It was uploaded eight months ago and it's a one file CSP file so you can actually click on quick look
here and I'll show you some other information that you may need.
In our case it's a CSP file so that's great but just a heads up.
It is a bit of a big dataset so if we click on it we can just simply click on download and wait a little
bit.
As your data sets gets downloaded now I want you to unzip this file and put it on your desktop where
your Jupiter notebook is.
So you want it in the same folder as the soccer notebook that you just created.
Let me do that.
So now if I go to my home I see that I have data dot CSC which is the file that we imported from Kaggle.
As you can see right now it looks like a massive amount of data.
We can't really read it because it's in CSP format.
Now if we go back to our soccer notebook we're going to use the pandas library to do our data analysis
to see what we actually get from Kaggle.
Now in our case we used Kaggle to grab our data but you can imagine that there's different ways to gather
the data and you can for example like we saw use something like beautiful soup to scrape web pages so
that you can understand it better so you can use any type of data possible.
Ideally if it's in a CSP format then we can use pandas and really do some neat things with it.
So let's take a look now.
Luckily for us by opening Jupiter with Anaconda remember the anaconda navigator we actually have access
to libraries like pandas automatically so all we have to do is simply say import pandas and we can do
as PD just so we have a shorthand instead of typing out pandas every time.
So if I do this I now have access to pandas and with pandas I can do read underscore CSP to actually
read our CSP file and because our CSP file is in the same folder as our soccer notebook I can just simply
give it the string data dot CSC which is what we have over here downloaded so if I run this I get my
data right here and look at that I have my pretty data with nationality we have links to photos we have
the name of the players the ideas the age and a ton of other things.
Now the neat thing with PANDAS is that we get this output as what we call a data frame and pandas allows
us to manipulate this data frame so that we can do interesting things with it.
So usually what you'll see is you'll just create a variable data frame equals PD dot read CSP so that
now this data frame is while we get down here all this information is now in our data frame variable
and we can do interesting things and run different methods and properties on it.
So for example if I do data underscore frame dot shape Oh give me more information about my data in
this case you'll see that a couple object is not callable I get nice errors in my Jupiter notebook and
that's because the shape is actually not a method but instead a property on data frame.
So if I run this again look at that.
This is the shape of my data.
I have eighty nine columns and while a ton of rows now I can also do different things and this is the
neat part about Jupiter is that I can just leave the input and output here and if I do a different cell
block I'll still have this information.
You'll still have imported pandas as PD.
So if I do now data frame dot let's do describe
I'll be able to run this and again it shows or describes the data that I have with describe.
We get the count.
So for example the overall age accumulated we get the mean age that is the average age of the players
so twenty five.
And we also get interesting things like maybe the oldest player is forty five the highest.
Jersey number is ninety nine.
And all this different type of data finally if I do something like data frame dot values and I run this
I get all the values of my data and you see here that it's an array that has different players in it.
So remember how I said libraries like no I work with arrays and lists in Python and help us manipulate
them.
Well as you can see our data frame is stored as an array of each individual player that we could potentially
manipulate and what we've done here is we've simply imported the data.
So we learned the first step of our small steps that is to import the data.
We found the data and we used pandas to grab our data into a data frame.
Now there are many different things they can do with pandas.
And I want you to after this video I'm going to link to this resource so you can try different methods
and properties on your data frames to see what type of things we can do so I want you to go through
this exercise and just try different things.
For example in filtering here we can try and learn about filtering our data frame.
So again if I just copy paste this changes to our variable that we have so data frame and then we want
to filter let's say let's look at the shape of our data or see what type of data we have you know what
let's Let's filter by H.
So I'm going to say data frame we're going to go by age and I'm going to say age is going to be older
than let's to list you 40.
If I run this
hope and age should be capitalized here.
So I've got a kicker if I run this again.
There we go.
I got a list.
I grabbed the head which means just the first couple of people of players with age over 40.
And I was able to do that just by looking at some of the pandas documentation and learning about filtering.
So I want you to explore this.
It's not too long.
And try out different data manipulation techniques so that you get familiar with pandas again you don't
need to memorize this often.
You usually will just look at the documentation and grab the data that you need in the next video.
We're going to try and solve an interesting problem with this dataset.
I'll see in the next one by.